+++
template = "main.html"
title = "Privacy Policy"
+++

Your privacy is just as important (if not more) than our privacy. We go to big lengths to ensure that your privacy is protected as much as possible. We're commited to making sure our service is private-by-default and we're a member of the <a href="https://www.doamatto.xyz/projects/privacy-by-default">Private by Default campaign.</a>

### What data is collected and why?
When you download the application, you do not need to make an account. All of the things that you'd normally do with an account (favouriting and settings) will not be synced with any third-parties. You can export this data, as mentioned in [the « Your Rights and Choices » section.](#your-rights-and-choices) If you sign up with Apple, Apple will allow us access to the following data:
- your first and last name (we ignore this data),
- your email address (we use this for data breach notifications); and:
- a unique token for us for authentication (we use this in place of an email address or password).

Alternatively, if you sign up with an email address, we collect the following data:
- your email address (used for logging in and data breach notifications),
- a unique token for us for authentication (we use this in place of an email address or password).

When using your account, you can choose to favourite meditations, sleep stories, and other content on Mello. When you favourite one of these, the following data is stored with your account data:
- the content ID of what you favourited (used to store your favourites for whenever you need them)

Your settings that you use in the app will automatically sync between devices to give a seamless experience. This is stored alongside your favourited content IDs.

If you are on our website (`getmello.org`) or our web app (`app.getmello.org`), we also use a self-hosted Umami server to privately aggregate information to better understand what our audience uses in terms of devices. The following data is collected by Umami:
- **Page URL—** We use this to see how many times a page has been viewed
- **HTTP referer—** We use this to see how many people are coming from certain websites
- **Browser—** We use this to see what browsers and browser versions are being used
- **Operating system—** We use this to see what operating systems are being used
- **Device type—** We use this to see what kinds of devices are being used (desktop, laptop, mobile)
- **Visitor country—** We use this to get a general idea of where users are from. This is found using the visitor's IP address, which is only used to find said country and then is discarded. It is never stored in our database or logs.

None of this data can be linked back to you by Mello, or any of the third-parties mentioned below.

### What data is shared, sold, or transfered?
We do not sell your data with any third-parties. [Some data is shared with third-parties](#who-has-access-to-or-processes-your-data) so that we may provide our service.

### Who has access to or processes your data?
The following two processors only apply to the web (`app.getmello.org`) and mobile apps.
[Supabase](https://supabase.io/auth), our login provider, has access to:
- email addresses (either the one provided by you or Apple),
- your first and last name (if you signed in with Apple).

[Upstash](https://www.upstash.com/), our database host, has access to:
- your login token (generated by Supabase; not identifiable by Upstash or Mello),
- content that you've saved to your library (used to sync with other devices),
- settings used in the application (used to sync with other devices).

The following three processors only apply to the website (`getmello.org`) and web app (`app.getmello.org`).

[Uberspace](https://uberspace.de), our host for Umami, and [Matt Ronchetto (doamatto)](https://alpine.gcp.doamatto.xyz), the maintainer of the Umami instance, has access to the entirety of the Uberspace instance. This is no more access than the general public, as mentioned below, to analytical data.

[The general public](https://u.nneko.me/share/GmGPTbyO) has access to all the data collected by Umami.

If you sign in with Apple, you are under their [privacy policy](https://www.apple.com/legal/privacy/en-ww/). We recommend that you review it to understand their data policies.

Mello, its servers, and its members are under the jurisdiction of the United States. This means that the U.S. government has the ability to request user information from us. Due to our commitment to privacy, we would only provide data if they provide us with a valid legal order such as a subpoena. Should they provide us with such order and a valid email address to find the user in question, we will still be unable to give them any information because:
- we can't unsalt and unhash email addresses,
- we can't unsalt and unhash content IDs, and:
- we can't unsalt and unhash passwords.

### How do we protect your data?
Truth be told: there's no be all and end all to protect your data. But, we do our best to use modern-day encryption methods as well as strict HSTS, DNSSEC, and CSP to ensure your experience is the way it was intended. We hash passwords with Argon2 locally, before sending them off your device.

We have signed special data protection agreements (DPAs) with Uberspace to protect the data on our Uberspace instance.

### What if there's a data breach?
In the event of a data breach, we will send out an email notification, regardless of if you were affected or not, with password reset notifications, following information pertaining to what things may have been compromised. This will all be done as soon as we find said breach. Once this issue is patched, we may release information on the issue as well as a write-up on how we fixed it on GitHub.

### Your rights and choices
In some countries, states, or provinces, you may have certain rights pertaining to your data. Regardless of where we're from, we want to give you as many choices as possible.

- **Request a copy of your data** In the event that you want to see such, you can easily request it by going inside the mobile or web app and:
  - opening the Settings panel,
  - opening the Account tab,
  - scrolling to the bottom of the page and selecting "Request a copy of my data"; and:
  - confirming you want a copy.
  
You'll be able to then download a JSON file containing your data, regardless of if you have an account or not.

- **Deleting your data** As sad as we are to see you go, we're here to make sure we completely forget that you were even here. When you delete your data, it goes away right when you confirm it. If you did not create an account, you can delete the account or clear your browsers cookies to remove your data, as it never leaves your device in the first place. Inside the mobile app or on the web app, you can delete your data by:
  - open the Settings panel,
  - open the Account tab,
  - scroll to the bottom of the page and select "Delete my data"; and:
  - confirm your erasure.

### Where can I find past versions of this policy?
This site's codebase is hosted publicly on GitHub. You can check the list of changes to this policy [here.](https://github.com/mello-app/static-website/blob/privacy.md)

### Contact
You can write to <a href="mailto:legal@getmello.org">legal [at] getmello.org</a> to get help as swiftly as possible on amending and fixing this document, as well as get answers to questions regarding this policy.
